# Bright Pack

Bright Pack is attempting to tackle the problem of sustainable packaging. Currently, cardboard boxes are used as the main form of packaging used by big delivery companies like Amazon, FedEx, and UPS. Packaging is $400 billion USD industry globally and the market for better shipping and packaging efficiency is open. Single-use packaging is harmful to the environment.  Sustainable packaging can be implemented one step at time, especially within a closed loop system like what the company Stitch Fix has created.  Bright Pack is a reusable envelope made from polypropylene sewn together that is designed to ship items repeatedly.  

Formulating a solution to address improving packaging and shipping efficiency is the key challenge. Stitch Fix sends its customers a monthly box of stylist picked clothes.  Once the customer picks out the clothes he or she wants to keep, the remaining items are shipped back to Stitch Fix.  The Stitch Fix system sends a package to the customer, but the customer sends an envelope to Stitch Fix.  When designing Bright Pack, key qualities of the package needed to stay the same. A package must minimize item damage, seal effectively, have appropriate cushioning, be materially efficient and user friendly. Creating a more sustainable package was evaluated by calculating manufacturing and shipping costs.  
Ultimately, the team came up with the solution to create a reusable envelope like Stitch Fix’s return envelope. Using an envelope instead of a box means less shipping costs for Stitch Fix.  The envelope can also do the same job as a box, by shipping the same number of items.  However, the costs for shipping will only be less.  Bright Pack plans to start by implementing a closed loop system like Stitch Fix, but eventually will plan to move to bigger shipping companies like Amazon.   

Market research, sourcing, pricing, comptetitive analysis, manufacturing, and data research were conducted to help create Bright Pack.  A poster is attached to give quick information on Bright Pack.  
